hey little guy want me to pet your back
this is a dinky mushy or electric beetle
in japanese
one touch and you'll feel a strong shock
but these beetles don't have any
electricity running through them
just a special toxin all over their body
over time this larva transforms into a
small moth
with a wingspan about the length of a
match
you're out with your friends and one of
them tells a lame joke
that's a cicada while they're common all
over the world
they are borderline iconic in japan
they live underground and when they're
old enough they crawl out and start
singing
when a cicada sheds it literally leaves
its entire body behind
like an empty clone you can see
thousands of empty cicada bodies in just
one tree
after that the cicada can finally call
itself an adult
and is the size of your big toe
the sound of a cicada singing is the
japanese code for summer
turn on the tv and you'll hear it in
movies and cartoons
[Music]
and this little guy is a skunk the
insect version
luckily it's only the size of a nail
it's called a stink beetle
if you touch it or scare it you'll be
covered with a gross smell
kind of like cilantro but way worse it
smells pretty bad
and you'll have to wash your clothes but
otherwise it's not that dangerous
they're always hungry and a serious
problem for japanese farmers
stink beetles like to eat fruits and
plants
they pierce the outside with their
little trunk and suck out the goodness
like an all-natural juice box
they're also a problem in winter stink
beetles
love to sneak into houses through any
cracks they can find
they get confused by the warmth of the
house and think it's a romantic hot spot
stink beetles usually breed there one
female can lay up to 30 eggs
and before long there's a flood of baby
beetles
all over the house pretty good opening
scene for a horror movie
the japanese mountain leech is a great
dancer
check out its moves this thing is the
perfect little hunter
it hides on the ground in the grass or
up a tree
waiting as soon as something tasty
passes by
it attacks best of all it walks like a
slinky
[Music]
japanese mountain leeches are stealthy
too you won't notice them right away
they'll hide under your clothes or even
in your shoes
then they inject you with a little
numbing toxin so you don't feel the bite
lastly feast time their tiny mouths have
small sharp teeth and lots of them
this is a house centipede this guy is a
great addition to your cleaning team
it eats other harmful pests it catches
flies
cockroaches termites and fleas even
though it looks a bit gross
let it do its thing and it's fast
imagine a sports car in insect form it
can run at over a foot per second when
chasing its prey
but don't be scared you and your beloved
pets are completely safe
how centipede teeth are too small to
bite humans or
household pets but this centipede has a
big
scary brother meet the giant centipede
this monster grows up to a one foot long
and it doesn't only hunt small insects
this thing hunts scorpions spiders
lizards even
mice and rats they've even been known to
attack bats and birds
the main thing to worry about is its
venom it can hurt quite a lot
and its bite can cause serious swelling
but don't stress too much
you'll be fine after a few hours
warning if you're scared of spiders get
ready for a fright
this is the huntsman spider it's not one
of those spiders that spins a web in the
corner and
waits for insects to get trapped in it
this one
jumps out at its lunch and tackles it to
the ground
it's fast and powerful with legs up to
11 inches long
well the good news is that these spiders
aren't venomous you might freak out if
it lands on you
but that's about it the japanese giant
hornet on the other hand
pretty serious its sting can reach the
size of a sunflower seed
and its wingspan is so big that it's
sometimes called
a sparrow bee when it feels under attack
this hornet sprays venom on its target
this venom is like a beacon for other
hornets they latch onto the location and
start attacking
also their venom is extremely dangerous
especially if they all attack at once
they're not only ruthless but also
incredibly tough
they can fly up to 50 miles a day
[Music]
juro spiders couldn't be more different
they only grow to about half an inch
but their webs can reach three feet
since their thread is yellow it looks
awesome in the sunlight scientists have
added the protein of this spider to
ordinary silk
to make it much stronger and more
durable juro spider silk is used in
tennis rackets fishing lines and nets
it's so strong they might even start
using it to build houses
in japanese fairy tales the giro spider
has a very unusual role
it sometimes turns into a woman
befriends a man
and then ties him up in his golden web
wow this beautiful insect
kind of like a butterfly is called an
owl moth
because of the two spots on its wings
and as
cool as it looks all grown up it's even
better when it's a baby
owl moth larva grow up to three inches
long and have long tentacles
similar to fishing hooks some people
think they use them as a protective
mechanism
now let's get on a plane to new zealand
this is a giant weta
one of the biggest insects in the world
it's kind of like a giant cricket with
grasshopper legs
they can weigh up to the same as a
tennis ball
this next one's right out of a sci-fi
movie part fly
part scorpion and part pelican it's a
scorpion fly
it has a long beak eyes and wings like a
fly
and a bent tail like a scorpion but it's
harmless
it only grows to about the size of your
thumb and sure the tail looks dangerous
but it's just for show it can't sting
you
the puss moth caterpillar don't let the
name fool you
it doesn't look much like a cat but it
does have short hair
still i don't recommend petting it
there's toxin on its fur
which causes severe skin irritation some
say the pain from this toxin
feels like boiling hot water on the skin
so
if you're traveling to the southeast u.s
or mexico
make sure you look before your pet
the titan beetle from south america like
the name suggests
it's from south america it's also one of
the biggest insects in the world
some grow to almost seven inches its
jaws can bite a pencil in half
and it's been known to attack people but
only when it's defending itself
these massive beetles don't live that
long after hatching from larvae
they only last a few weeks oh and did i
mention they're from south america
this is the goliath bird eater it's the
largest spider by weight
about the same as a can of tuna and is
the longest spider by length of body
about the length of a chocolate bar what
a nightmare
despite the name goliath bird eaters
rarely eat birds
they mostly like worms toads lizards and
snakes
yum now don't worry you'll probably live
your whole life without seeing one in
the wild
goliath bird eaters live in the rain
forest of wait for it
south america wow
the hercules moth what a great name this
moths wings are bigger than the palm of
your hand
it's super interesting even when it's
still in caterpillar form
hercules moth caterpillars grow up to 4
inches long
the best thing about them they have
small spikes all over their body
just like a mini hedgehog
the maricopa harvester ant it's one of
the most
venomous insects in the world its venom
has a special chemical in it
that acts as a signal for other ants so
when one ant
bites they all rush out to share in the
fun
right the kissing bug
this little bug's also called a vampire
bug
why because it likes to eat its midnight
snack
vampire style it sneaks into a nest
and goes hunting at night when it's
colder and the host is sleeping
some species like to live with humans
and they especially
like the nibble near the mouth
camel spider this insect about the size
of a phone
is somewhere between a spider and a
scorpion
its hairy legs look scary but its bites
not that dangerous
it prefers hot and dry weather so bear
that in mind when you're planning your
next picnic
so had enough big creepy bugs yeah me
too
see you next time